## Git, Github and Pages

Git, GitHub, and GitHub Pages are all very closely related. Imagine Git as the workflow to get things done and GitHub and GitHub Pages as places to store the work you finish. Projects that use Git are stored publicly in GitHub and GitHub Pages, so in a very generalized way, Git is what you do locally on your own computer and GitHub is the place where all this gets stored publicly on a server.

--

## Git

Git is a version control system that tracks changes to files in a project over time. It typically records what the changes were (what was added? what was removed from the file?), who made the changes, notes and comments about the changes by the changer, and at what time the changes were made. It is primarily used for software development projects which are often collaborative, so in this sense, it is a tool to help enable and improve collaboration.

--

## Github

GitHub is a web hosting service for the source code of software and web development projects (or other text based projects) that use Git. In many cases, most of the code is publicly available, enabling developers to easily investigate, collaborate, download, use, improve, and remix that code. The container for the code of a specific project is called a repository.

There are thousands of really cool and exciting repositories on GitHub, with new ones added every day.

--

## Github Pages

GitHub Pages are public webpages hosted for free through GitHub. GitHub users can create and host both personal websites (one allowed per user) and websites related to specific GitHub projects. Pages lets you do the same things as GitHub, but if the repository is named a certain way and files inside it are HTML or Markdown, you can view the file like any other website.

--

## [Read more](http://jmcglone.com/guides/github-pages/)
